---
author: omaralba
title: RubyArguments
date: 26-05-2025
tags: [ruby, arguments]
---

# RubyArguments

Ruby is very flexible when it comes about method arguments, for example the well
known requiered arguments, but also optional arguments and something called
keyword(named) arguments, very flexible in my opinion, a lot of possibilities
with these.

There are 3 ways to pass information from a method call to a method definition.


## Positional arguments

Ruby’s positional arguments have the least amount of syntax and are probably
very similar to other languages.

### Positional arguments syntax 

Positional arguments are declared by listing the names that the arguments will
have inside the method: 

```ruby
def address(number,street, city, zip)
```

When calling the method, the values being passed are listed left to right and 
correspond in order with the declared argument names. The order of the arguments 
is significant.


```ruby
address(23,Manuel Gonzalez, CDMX, 56619)
```


### Default values in positional arguments

You can declare an argument to have a default value by adding = <value> to a 
positional argument. This allows you to be flexible about the number of arguments 
passed to a method.


```ruby
def address(number,street = 23, city, zip)
```

Somethnig important is that ruby will try to fit the call with the definition
of the arguments. See <https://noelrappin.com/blog/2024/01/better-know-positional-arguments/>

## KeyWord arguments (kwargs)

In ruby, the method definition determines whether an argument is positional or
keyword and the caller has to match, this means, I can´t call a positional with
a keyword. 

### KeyWord arguments syntax 

We can declare keyword arguments by putting a colon after the argument, and
inside the method we can use the keyword as a local variable:

```ruby
def basic_method(name:, address:, country:)
  puts "#{name}, #{address}, #{country}"
end
```

When calling the method, you use the keyword: value syntax in the method call:
```ruby
basic_method(name: "Clark", address: "Smallvile", country: "USA")
```

Important: the order of the keyword arguments doesn´t matter, also, if we only
use the previous syntax, all the arguments are requiered 

But we can use optional keyword arguments: 
```ruby
def basic_method(name:, address:, country: "USA")
  p "#{name}, #{address}, #{country}"
end
```

