---
author: omaralba
title: SOLID
date: 22-05-2025
tags: [principles]
---

# SOLID

## Single Responsibility Principle

A class should have only one reason to change.

### Description

When we create a class, we often think about the actions (methods) that this class is
going to have for its instances or for the class itself, but we have to ensure
that the methods and the responsibility of the class is unique, personally, I
think this is hard at the beginning of the abstraction, so when we write the
code of the class, we can think a moment if that is a complete responsibility of
the class or we should create another class to take a certain action inside of it. 


Basically, we have to create classes with one responsibility so we only need one
reason to change that class, if we don´t do that is possible to create conflicts
when we work in a team, maybe 2 people would modify the same class because it
has 2 or more responsibilities. 


## Open/Closed Principle

Entities should be open for extension but closed for modification.

### Description

Our classes,modules or functions should not be modified, instead we should be
able to create a new one that inherites from a previous class and then we can
add new behaviour.

If we add code to the main class, functions, or modules we could be adding errors
in the general program because that previous code is used in other places in our
program.


## Liskov Substitution Principle

Derived or child classes must be substitutable for their base or parent class

### Description

We need to be consistent in the inheritance of the classes, I mean, if we are
extending a class then we are assuming that the child classes have the same
behaviuor than the parent (that's why we are creating a child class in the first place),
so if we call a method of the parent class using an instance of the child class
then we should have not get problems at all. 


## Interface Segregation Principle 

A client should never be forced to implement an interface that he doesn´t use,
or clients shouldn´t be forced to depend on methods they don´t use.

### Description

When we define a module, and we include in any class, we are not forced to use
all the methods defined in the module, so I think that´s ok with this principle,
but in Java when we use an interface and implement it in a class we must use all
the methods defined in the interface, so here is a good example about this
principle, we have to define correctly only the neccesary methods in the
interface to avoid to force the clients to use all the methods. 

## Dependency Inversion Principle

Entities must depend on abstractions not on concretions.It states that the
high-level module must not depend on the low level module, but they should
depend on abstractions.

This principle is used in the dependeny injection, where we have to inject some
entitites or modules or classes to other class, and then we are able to use the
methods inside the dependencys, but we separate the code to not depend on
implemententions but in abstraction. 
